Application Programming Interface
AWS
Short for Amazon Web Services, AWS is Amazon.com’s cloud computing platform, offering over three dozen cloud services to consumers. AWS is the Internet’s most-used cloud service provider.
BaaS
This acronym stands for Backend-as-a-Service, and it provides tools and services to the developers of mobile and web apps to create their cloud backend for said apps. The mobile variety is usually designated as mBaaS.
Big Data
A catch-all term for massive amounts of structured and unstructured data that come from a wide variety of sources. The sheer volume of data makes it virtually impossible to process using conventional techniques.
Cloud Backup
Backing up data to a remote, cloud-based server. The data is stored in and accessed from a network of interconnected resources, forming the aforementioned cloud.  
loud Computing
The delivery of IT services on-demand over shared networked computing resources. The top three cloud offerings are IaaS, PaaS, and SaaS.
Cloud Provider
An organization or business that offers access to cloud computing services, generally for a fee. Examples of cloud providers include AWS, Azure, and Google Cloud.
Consumption-based
The cloud computing pricing model where customers are charged for how much of the service they use, rather than a block of time.
Data Migration
Moving data between multiple formats, servers, storage systems, or warehouses. The terms are used most often in terms of sending data off to the cloud.
Elasticity
A cloud storage system’s capability for adapting to clients’ fluctuating workload demands.
External Cloud
This is a cloud service where fees are most likely charged, and offers customization to suit clients’ needs.
Google Cloud Platform
Also known as GCP, this is Google’s entry into the cloud computing race. It offers IaaS and PaaS.
IaaS
An acronym standing for Infrastructure as a Service, it consists of a virtual environment delivered to customers by a cloud provider. This particular infrastructure features network equipment, servers, storage, and software, the latter including a complete desktop environment.
Infrastructure
The catchall term describing all IT resources, both virtual and hardware that support a given IT environment.
Internal Cloud
A private cloud service created or offered by an internal IT department, strictly for in-house use.
Load Balancing
The distribution of workloads over a series of resources, for instance, servers, to assure that no single server suffers a point of failure.
Middleware
Software that serves as a bridge between applications and components.
On-Premise
Refers to either infrastructure or software technology that runs on the premises belonging to the user of that technology. 
PaaS
An acronym standing for Platform as a Service, this is a product where the cloud services provider offers users the necessary software and hardware for the creation, deployment, and management of applications, all via the Internet.
Pay-As-You-Go
A means of purchasing cloud services (hardware and software) from a provider that requires no money down; instead, it’s a based on consumption, or via subscription.
Personal Cloud
This is a classic case of rebranding. In terms of the cloud, “personal cloud” is another way to describe network-attached storage (NAS) devices. A NAS is a computer connected to a network for the purposes of dedicated data storage. “Personal cloud” is a prime example of “cloud washing,” which in turn is defined as the act of rebranding old tech into something related to the cloud.
Private Cloud
This is a cloud infrastructure system that is used by multiple users within one single entity (business, organization, etc.) It can be operated by the home organization, a third party, or some combination of the two, and be located either on-premises or off-site.
Public Cloud
This is a cloud infrastructure system that is hosted by a cloud services provider and can be accessed by anyone with an Internet connection.  Amazon’s EC2 or IBM’s Blue Cloud are good examples, as is Google Drive.
Service Level Agreement (SLA)
This is the agreement between a Cloud Service Provider (CSP) and a customer, outlining contractual terms such as availability, level of service, and performance.
SaaS
An acronym standing for Software as a Service, this represented software applications hosted by a vendor and sold as subscription licenses to users. Salesforce, Adobe’s Creative Cloud, and Microsoft’s Office 365 are some of the most well-known examples of a SaaS.
Software Stack
This is a group of applications that work together, in tandem, so to achieve a typical result. The components work in a specific order within this framework.
User Interface
This is how a user and computer system interact.
Virtual Machine
A VM is a software that emulates a computer, used for running an operating system or applications.
Virtual Desktop Infrastructure 
This is virtualization technology that hosts a desktop operating system on a virtual machine. It’s also called server-based computing.
